
Leslie Rolon
Wed 27-May-26 11:41 AM
To:
Leslie's Region;
Deon Tolliver;
Cc:
JR Rolon;
Nicole Chriqui;
Robert Sagarang;
Brandon Rose;
Gennady Prilutsky;
You replied on 27-May-26 1:27 PM.

Good afternoon,
I need everyone to make a list of items, situations, procedures, or general areas you struggle with, have questions about, or would like refresher training on. This is your opportunity to ask questions and speak up on anything you are unsure about. No one knows everything, but I do expect everyone to ask questions when they do not understand something instead of continuing to make the same mistakes over and over.
Moving forward, I will be holding everyone more accountable and enforcing company policies and procedures. We spend a lot of time, effort, and money bringing everyone to Apartment Fest, trainings, classes, etc., yet many of the same issues continue throughout the year. These trainings are meant to help you learn, ask questions, and apply that knowledge at your properties year round, not just attend and forget about it the following week.
This is not meant to criticize anyone. The goal is to identify areas where additional training, clarification, organization, or follow-through is needed so we can improve operations, compliance, consistency, and overall property management company wide.
The list below includes examples to get you started of common issues, procedural reminders, and areas where additional guidance or refresher training may be needed:
When/how to calculate income for seasonal workers like a school bus driver that does not work all 12 months.
How to calculate Social Security income and percentage increases. When to anticipate the new year increase if someone moves in during October knowing an increase is expected in December or January.
What to collect for income and assets, when items need to be notarized, how many verifications are needed, and what is currently acceptable.
What belongs in the file and what can be purged for HUD and Tax Credit files.
When an 18-year-old who moved in as a minor must come sign required paperwork.
Abandonment letters, deceased move-out timeframes, termination notices, etc.
What charges can and cannot be charged at move-out and properly completing invoices and supporting documentation. We cannot charge fees that are not listed in the lease (HUD) and violation notices must be in the file.
Cameras and resident information. We cannot research cameras for residents it’s a liability for the property or hand out keys without ID and the person being listed on the lease, even if we know them personally.
Missing documents in files. Residents cannot move in without required documents. While temporary timeframes may occasionally be given, many of you fail to go back and obtain the missing items.
Unorganized maintenance shops and maintenance continuously running to local hardware stores for parts because materials were not ordered timely despite knowing how many vacants are coming up. If vacants are properly walked, materials should already be known and ordered.
Any additional questions regarding OneSite, EIV, NSPIRE, HOTMA, waitlists, recertifications, maintenance operations, lease enforcement, file management, or general property operations.
Please send your lists as soon as possible so we can begin putting together additional training, refreshers, and guidance where needed. If I don’t receive your list, I will assume you either know it all already or feel you don’t need any additional help or clarification and should therefore have no issues passing inspections, audits, or maintaining your property requirements. 

Thank you,
Leslie 
